Add large scale security policy performance test blog (#8070)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2020/large-scale-security-policy-performance-tests/index.md

---

> title: Large Scale Security Policy Perfomance Tests

Reviewer: typo: `performance`

Author: Great thanks

subtitle: How does having security policies effect latency of requests
description: How does having security policies effect latency of request.
publishdate: 2020-09-02
attribution: "Michael Eizaguirre (Google)"

> keywords: [test,security policy]

Reviewer: add `performance` to the keywords list?

Author: Great thanks

---

## Overview

Istio has a wide range of Security policies which can be easily configured into systems of services. As the number of Security policies being applied increases it is important to understand how much latency these Security policies are adding to the system.

> This blog post goes over common Security policies use cases and how the number of Security policies or the number of specific rules in a Security policy can effect the overall latency of requests.

Reviewer 2: Can we mention here is the very first step of performance test that focuses the latency, more could be done to measure other metrics (e.g. cpu, mem)

Author: Great updated it

## Setup

There are a wide range of Security policies and many more combinations of those policies. We will go over 6 test cases that were determined to be more common/valuable to users.

The following test cases are run in an environment which consists of a fortio client sending requests to a fortio server, except of that of a the baseline which has no Envoy sidecars deployed.
{{< image width="55%" ratio="45.34%"

>     link="./istio_setup.svg"

Reviewer: do not need to add `./` if `istio_setup.svg` is at the same level of your `index.md`. In you case, it is, so could be safe to remove `./` . Same for other places?

Author: Perfect updated

    caption="Environment setup"

>     >}}

Reviewer: prefer to add an `alt=` descriptions here. Same for others.

Author: Updated

Reviewer: thank!

> The policies that are applied are made to not match with any request or only the very last rule, this makes makes sure that the RBAC filter has to go through all the rules and policies. This forces the system to never short circuit (when the RBAC filter matches before viewing all the policies). Even though this is not necessarily what will happen in your individual system, this gives data of the worst possible performance of each test case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The policies that are applied are made to not match with any request or only the very last rule, this makes sure that the RBAC filter has to go through all the rules and policies. This forces the system to never short circuit (when the RBAC filter matches before viewing all the policies). Even though this is not necessarily what will happen in your individual system, this gives data of the worst possible performance of each test case.
```

Author: Good catch just updated this

## Test cases

1. MTLS STRICT vs plaintext.

1. A single authorization policy with a variable number of principal rules. For the RBAC filter to activate this rule a peer authentication policy must also be applied to the system.

> 1. Authorization policy with a variable number of `requestPrincipal` rules. For the RBAC filter to activate this rule a `requestAuthentication` policy must also be applied to the system.

Reviewer 2: Is this a single policy or variable number of policies?

Reviewer 2: It's a bit misleading to say `For the RBAC filter to activate this rule`, can we update to say that the `requestPrincipal` is depending on the `RequestAuthentication` policy, no need to mention RBAC filter.

Author: Sounds good updated it

1. A single authorization policy with variable number of paths vs `sourceIP` rules

1. Variable number of authorization policies each consisting of a single paths or `sourceIP` rule

> 1. A single `requestAuthentication` policy with variable number of `JWTRules` rules

Reviewer 2: `RequestAuthentication`

Author: Great thanks

> - 1: MTLS STRICT vs plaintext.
> 
> - 2: A single authorization policy with a variable number of principal rules. For the RBAC filter to activate this rule a peer authentication policy must also be applied to the system.
> 
> - 3: Authorization policy with a variable number of requestPrincipal rules. For the RBAC filter to activate this rule a requestAuthentication policy must also be applied to the system.
> 
> - 4: A single authorization policy with variable number of paths vs sourceIP rules
> 
> - 5: Variable number of authorization policies each consisting of a single paths or sourceIP rule
> 
> - 6: A single requestAuthentication policy with variable number of JWTRules rules

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. MTLS STRICT vs plaintext.

1. A single authorization policy with a variable number of principal rules. For the RBAC filter to activate this rule a peer authentication policy must also be applied to the system.

1. Authorization policy with a variable number of requestPrincipal rules. For the RBAC filter to activate this rule a requestAuthentication policy must also be applied to the system.

1. A single authorization policy with variable number of paths vs sourceIP rules

1. Variable number of authorization policies each consisting of a single paths or sourceIP rule

1. A single requestAuthentication policy with variable number of JWTRules rules
```

Author: Just updated this thanks

## Data

The y axis of each test is the latency in milliseconds, and the x axis is the number of concurrent connections. The x axis of each graph will consist of 3 data points. This first being a small load (qps=100, conn=8), the second a medium load (qps=500, conn=32), and the third being a large load (qps=1000, conn=64)

{{< tabset category-name="platform" >}}

{{< tab name="MTLS vs plainText" category-value="one" >}}
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./mtls_plaintext.svg"
    alt="MTLS vs plaintext"
    caption=""
    >}}
The difference between MTLS mode STRICT vs that of plaintext is very small in lower loads and as the number of qps and conn increase the latency of requests with MTLS STRICT rise higher. The additional latency increased in larger loads is minimal compared to that of the increase from having no sidecars vs having sidecars in the plaintext.
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< tab name="AuthZ principals" category-value="two" >}}

Reviewer 2: Can we just call this "AuthZ mTLS SourcePrincipals"

Author: Updated

{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./AuthZ_var_principals.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy variable number of principals"
    caption=""
    >}}

For Authorization policies with 10 vs 1000 principal rules, there is a larger increase of latency of having 10 principal rules compared to having no policies than there is with the increase of latency of having 1000 principals compared to having 10 principals.
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< tab name="AuthZ requestPrincipals" category-value="three" >}}

Reviewer 2: and this "AuthZ JWT RequestPrincipal"

Author: Updated

{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./AuthZ_var_requestPrincipals.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable principals"
    caption=""
    >}}
    For Authorization policies with a variable number of `requestPrincipal` rules, the difference of latency of having 10 `requestPrincipal` rules compared to no policies is nearly the same as the increase of having 1000 `requestPrincipal` rules compared to having 10 `requestPrincipal` rules.
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< tab name="paths vs sourceIP" category-value="four" >}}

Reviewer 2: Can we split this into two? one tab for just "AuthZ Path" and another tab for "AuthZ Source IP"

Author: Yes updated, but kept the image of the comparison of both in both tabs

To compare the latency of having a variable number of path vs `sourceIP` the data is broken into 3 graphs.
The first showing the data of having a variable number of `sourceIP` rules in a single Authorization policy as well as the baseline.
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./AuthZ_var_sourceIP.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable `sourceIP` rules"
    caption=""
    >}}
The second graph shows the data of having a variable number of path rules in a single Authorization policy as well as the baseline.
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./AuthZ_var_paths.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable number of paths"
    caption=""
    >}}
And finally the last graph shows the data of having a variable number of `sourceIP` rules vs path rules without the baseline.
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./AuthZ_paths_vs_sourceIP.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with both paths and `sourceIP`"
    caption=""
    >}}
Having `sourceIP` rules increases the latency of request in a minimal amount compared to that of path rules.
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< tab name="JWTRule" category-value="five" >}}

Reviewer 2: can we name this as "RequeatAuthN JWT Issuer", variable number of `JWTRules` really mean many different issuers, so call out issuer is more familiar and meaningful to (new) users.

Author: Makes sense, thanks

{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./RequestAuthN_jwks.svg"
    alt="Request Authentication with variable number of `JWTRules`"
    caption=""
    >}}
Having a single `JWTRule` applied to the system is comparable to that of having no policies applied, but as the number of `JWTRules` increase the latency increases disproportionately larger.
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< tab name="Variable Authorization policies" category-value="six" >}}

Reviewer 2: Maybe just "Variable AuthZ"

Author: Great updated

To test how the number of Authorization policies effect runtime the tests can be broken into two cases.

- 1: Every Authorization policy has a single sourceIP rule.

- 2: Every Authorization policy has a single path rule.

{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./AuthZ_var_policies_sourceIP.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable number of policies, with sourceIP rule"
    caption=""
    >}}
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./AuthZ_var_policies_paths.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable number of policies, with path rule"
    caption=""
    >}}
The overall trend of both graphs are similar. This is consistent to the paths vs sourceIP data which showed that the latency is marginally higher for sourceIP rules compared to that of path rules.
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabset >}}

## Conclusion

> In general adding security policies does not add relatively high overhead to the system, with the heavier policies being:
> 
> 1: Authorization policy with JWTRules rules.
> 
> 2: Authorization policy with requestPrincipal rules.
> 
> 3: Authorization policy with principals rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- In general adding security policies does not add relatively high overhead to the system, with the heavier policies being:

    1. Authorization policy with JWTRules rules.

    1. Authorization policy with requestPrincipal rules.

    1. Authorization policy with principals rules.
```

Author: Just updated this

- In lower loads (requests with lower qps and conn) the difference in latency for most policies is minimal.

- That having sidecars creates a larger increase in latency than most policies even if those policies being applied are large.

- The overhead of having these extremely large policies add is relatively similar to the increase of latency of adding the Envoy proxies compared to that of no Envoy proxies.

- In a more particular note, with two different tests it was determined that the sourceIP rule is marginally slower than that of a path rule.

> If you are interesting in creating your own large scale Security policies and running performance tests with them see [README](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark/security/generate_policies)

Author: Great, updated. Thanks!

> If you are interested in creating your own large scale Security policies and running performance tests with them see [README](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark/security/generate_policies)

Reviewer 2: Can we also link the design doc

Author: Yes, my only concern is that only people from google can view the doc

Reviewer 2: the doc should be moved to the security WG community drive, anyone can join the community group to view it.

Author: Great then we are all good

---
title: Large Scale Security Policy Performance Tests

> subtitle: How does having security policies effect latency of requests

Author: Great thanks!

description: The effect of security policies on latency of requests.

> publishdate: 2020-09-10

Author: Updated

> publishdate: 2020-09-02

Reviewer 3: You need to update this when the PR is ready to merge.

attribution: "Michael Eizaguirre (Google), Yangmin Zhu (Google), Carolyn Hu (Google)"
keywords: [test,security policy,performance]
---

## Overview

> Istio has a wide range of Security policies which can be easily configured into systems of services. As the number of applied Security policies increases, it is important to understand the relationship of latency, memory usage, and CPU usage of the system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Istio has a wide range of security policies which can be easily configured into systems of services. As the number of applied policies increases, it is important to understand the relationship of latency, memory usage, and CPU usage of the system.
```

Author: Updated in latest commit

> Istio has a wide range of Security policies which can be easily configured into systems of services. As the number of Security policies being applied increases it is important to understand the relationship of latency, mem usage, and CPU usage of the system.

Author: Updated in the latest commit

> This blog post goes over common Security policies use cases and how the number of Security policies or the number of specific rules in a Security policy can affect the overall latency of requests.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This blog post goes over common security policies use cases and how the number of security policies or the number of specific rules in a security policy can affect the overall latency of requests.
```

Author: Great thanks!

> This blog post goes over common Security policies use cases and how the number of Security policies or the number of specific rules in a Security policy can effect the overall latency of requests.

Author: Great, updated in the latest commit

## Setup

> There are a wide range of Security policies and many more combinations of those policies. We will go over 6 of the most commonly used test cases.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There are a wide range of security policies and many more combinations of those policies. We will go over 6 of the most commonly used test cases.
```

Author: updated

> There are a wide range of Security policies and many more combinations of those policies. We will go over 6 test cases that were determined to be more common/valuable to users.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
There are a wide range of Security policies and many more combinations of those policies. We will go over 6 of the most commonly used test cases.
```

Author: Great, updated in the latest commit

> The following test cases are run in an environment which consists of a Fortio client sending requests to a Fortio server, with a baseline of no Envoy sidecars deployed. The following data was gathered by using the performance benchmarking tool that can be found [here](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark).

Reviewer 6: can we add a link to Fortio?

> The following test cases are run in an environment which consists of a Fortio client sending requests to a Fortio server, with a baseline of no Envoy sidecars deployed. The following data was gathered by using the performance benchmarking tool that can be found [here](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following test cases are run in an environment which consists of a [Fortio](https://fortio.org/) client sending requests to a Fortio server, with a baseline of no Envoy sidecars deployed. The following data was gathered by using the [Istio performance benchmarking tool](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark).
```

Author: Sounds good, thanks!

> The following test cases are run in an environment which consists of a fortio client sending requests to a fortio server, except of that of a the baseline which has no Envoy sidecars deployed. The testing tool used to get the following data is the performance benchmarking tool found [here](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark)

Author: Great, updated in the latest commit

{{< image width="55%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="istio_setup.svg"
    alt="Environment setup"
    >}}

In these test cases, requests either do not match any rules or match only the very last rule in the security policies. This ensures that the RBAC filter is applied to all policy rules, and never matches a policy rule before before viewing all the policies. Even though this is not necessarily what will happen in your own system, this policy setup provides data for the worst possible performance of each test case.

## Test cases

> 1. MTLS STRICT vs plaintext.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Mutual TLS STRICT vs plaintext.
```

Author: Updated in latest commit

> The policies that are applied are made to not match with any request or only the very last rule, this makes sure that the RBAC filter has to go through all the rules and policies. This forces the system to never short circuit (when the RBAC filter matches before viewing all the policies). Even though this is not necessarily what will happen in your individual system, this gives data of the worst possible performance of each test case.

Author: Great, updated in the latest commit

> 1. A single authorization policy with a variable number of principal rules as well as a `PeerAuthentication` policy. The principal rule is dependent on the`PeerAuthentication` policy being applied to the system.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. A single authorization policy with a variable number of principal rules as well as a `PeerAuthentication` policy. The principal rule is dependent on the `PeerAuthentication` policy being applied to the system.
```

Author: Great thanks!

1. A single authorization policy with a variable number of `requestPrincipal` rules as well as a `RequestAuthentication` policy. The `requestPrincipal` is dependent on the `RequestAuthentication` policy being applied to the system.

> 1. A single authorization policy with a variable number of paths vs `sourceIP` rules.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. A single authorization policy with a variable number of `paths` vs `sourceIP` rules.
```

Reviewer 3: Don't use back-ticks if "paths" isn't the exact field name.

> 1. A single authorization policy with variable number of paths vs `sourceIP` rules

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. A single authorization policy with a variable number of paths vs `sourceIP` rules.
```

Author: Great, updated in the latest commit

> 1. Variable number of authorization policies each consisting of a single paths or `sourceIP` rule

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. A variable number of authorization policies consisting of a single path or `sourceIP` rule.
```

Author: Great, updated in the latest commit

> 1. A single `RequestAuthentication` policy with variable number of `JWTRules` rules

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. A single `RequestAuthentication` policy with variable number of `JWTRules` rules.
```

Author: Great, updated in the latest commit

## Data

The y-axis of each test is the latency in milliseconds, and the x-axis is the number of concurrent connections. The x-axis of each graph consists of 3 data points that represent a small load (qps=100, conn=8), medium load (qps=500, conn=32), and large load (qps=1000, conn=64).

{{< tabset category-name="platform" >}}

> {{< tab name="MTLS vs plainText" category-value="one" >}}

Reviewer 6: tab namings are confusing.  The first tab said mtls vs plain text, however, you seem to have plain text for each other tabs as well (for the baseline without sidecar).

also for your sidecar with no policy, i assume default is permissive, or strict?

Author: So in this graph we wanted to compare how mtls strict compares to the baseline, in other tabs the baseline was also in the graph so that we can have a consistent comparison through all graphs. With no policies the default should be strict

> The y axis of each test is the latency in milliseconds, and the x axis is the number of concurrent connections. The x axis of each graph will consist of 3 data points. This first being a small load (qps=100, conn=8), the second a medium load (qps=500, conn=32), and the third being a large load (qps=1000, conn=64)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The y-axis of each test is the latency in milliseconds, and the x-axis is the number of concurrent connections. The x-axis of each graph consists of 3 data points that represent a small load (qps=100, conn=8), medium load (qps=500, conn=32), and large load (qps=1000, conn=64).
```

Author: Great, updated in the latest commit

{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="mtls_plaintext.svg"
    alt="MTLS vs plaintext"
    caption=""
    >}}

> The difference between MTLS mode STRICT vs that of plaintext is very small in lower loads and as the number of qps and conn increase the latency of requests with MTLS STRICT rise higher. The additional latency increased in larger loads is minimal compared to that of the increase from having no sidecars vs having sidecars in the plaintext.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The difference of latency between MTLS mode STRICT and plaintext is very small in lower loads. As the `qps` and `conn` increase, the latency of requests with MTLS STRICT increases. The additional latency increased in larger loads is minimal compared to that of the increase from having no sidecars to having sidecars in the plaintext.
```

Author: Following comments in this version have been updated in the latest commit

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="AuthZ mTLS SourcePrincipals" category-value="two" >}}
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="AuthZ_var_principals.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy variable number of principals"
    caption=""
    >}}

> For Authorization policies with 10 vs 1000 principal rules, there is a larger increase of latency of having 10 principal rules compared to having no policies than there is with the increase of latency of having 1000 principals compared to having 10 principals.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For Authorization policies with 10 vs 1000 principal rules, the latency increase of 10 principal rules compared to no policies is greater than the latency increase of 1000 principals compared to 10 principals.
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="AuthZ JWT RequestPrincipal" category-value="three" >}}
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="AuthZ_var_requestPrincipals.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable principals"
    caption=""
    >}}

>     For Authorization policies with a variable number of `requestPrincipal` rules, the difference of latency of having 10 `requestPrincipal` rules compared to no policies is nearly the same as the increase of having 1000 `requestPrincipal` rules compared to having 10 `requestPrincipal` rules.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    For Authorization policies with a variable number of `requestPrincipal` rules, the latency increase of 10 `requestPrincipal` rules compared to no policies is nearly the same as the latency increase of 1000 `requestPrincipal` rules compared to 10 `requestPrincipal` rules.
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="AuthZ sourceIP" category-value="four" >}}
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="AuthZ_var_sourceIP.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable `sourceIP` rules"
    caption=""
    >}}

> The increase of latency of a single `AuthZ` policy with 10 `sourceIP` rules is not proportional to the increase of latency of having a single `AuthZ` policy with 1000 `sourceIP` rules compared to the system with sidecar and no policies.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The latency increase of a single `AuthZ` policy with 10 `sourceIP` rules is not proportional to the latency increase of a single `AuthZ` policy with 1000 `sourceIP` rules compared to the system with sidecar and no policies.
```

{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="AuthZ_paths_vs_sourceIP.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with both paths and `sourceIP`"
    caption=""
    >}}

> The latency of having a variable number of `sourceIP` rules is marginally slower than that of having path rules.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The latency increase of a variable number of `sourceIP` rules is marginally greater than that of path rules.
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="AuthZ paths" category-value="five" >}}
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="AuthZ_var_paths.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable number of paths"
    caption=""
    >}}

> The increase of latency of a single `AuthZ` policy with 10 path rules is not proportional to the increase of latency of having a single `AuthZ` policy with 1000 path rules compared to the system with sidecar and no policies. This trend is similar to that of `sourceIP` rules.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The latency increase of a single `AuthZ` policy with 10 path rules is not proportional to the latency increase of a single `AuthZ` policy with 1000 path rules compared to the system with sidecar and no policies. This trend is similar to that of `sourceIP` rules.
```

{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="AuthZ_paths_vs_sourceIP.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with both paths and `sourceIP`"
    caption=""
    >}}
The latency of a variable number of paths rules is marginally lesser than that of `sourceIP` rules.
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< tab name="RequeatAuthN JWT Issuer" category-value="six" >}}

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
{{< tab name="RequestAuthN JWT Issuer" category-value="six" >}}
```

Author: Good catch thanks!

> The latency of having a variable number of paths rules is marginally faster than that of having `sourceIP` rules.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The latency of a variable number of paths rules is marginally lesser than that of `sourceIP` rules.
```

{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="RequestAuthN_jwks.svg"
    alt="Request Authentication with variable number of JWT issuers"
    caption=""
    >}}

> Having a single JWT issuers applied to the system is comparable to that of having no policies applied, but as the number of JWT issuers increase the latency increases disproportionately larger.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The latency of a single JWT issuer is comparable to that of no policies, but as the number of JWT issuers increase, the latency increases disproportionately.
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="Variable AuthZ" category-value="seven" >}}
To test how the number of Authorization policies affect runtime, the tests can be broken into two cases:

> - 1: Every Authorization policy has a single `sourceIP` rule.
> 
> - 2: Every Authorization policy has a single path rule.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Every Authorization policy has a single `sourceIP` rule.

1. Every Authorization policy has a single path rule.
```

Author: Great updated!

> To test how the number of Authorization policies effect runtime the tests can be broken into two cases.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To test how the number of Authorization policies affect runtime, the tests can be broken into two cases:
```

{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="AuthZ_var_policies_sourceIP.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable number of policies, with `sourceIP` rule"
    caption=""
    >}}
{{< image width="90%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="AuthZ_var_policies_paths.svg"
    alt="Authorization policy with variable number of policies, with path rule"
    caption=""
    >}}

> The overall trend of both graphs are similar. This is consistent to the paths vs `sourceIP` data which showed that the latency is marginally higher for `sourceIP` rules compared to that of path rules.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The overall trends of both graphs are similar. This is consistent to the paths vs `sourceIP` data, which showed that the latency is marginally greater for `sourceIP` rules than that of path rules.
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabset >}}

## Conclusion

> - In general adding security policies does not add relatively high overhead to the system, with the heavier policies being:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- In general, adding security policies does not add relatively high overhead to the system. The policies that add the most latency include:
```

    1. Authorization policy with `JWTRules` rules.

    1. Authorization policy with `requestPrincipal` rules.

    1. Authorization policy with principals rules.

- In lower loads (requests with lower qps and conn) the difference in latency for most policies is minimal.

> - Envoy proxy sidecars increase latency more than most policies, even if the policies are large.

Reviewer 6: I don't fully understand this.  What does this means to users?  not worry about policies because envoy itself increase latency more even when istio policies aren't used?

Author: We wanted to let the users know that the increase of latency due to security policies is not that great, that the security policies are overall quite minimal in relation to the increase of latency

> - That having sidecars creates a larger increase in latency than most policies even if those policies being applied are large.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Envoy proxy sidecars increase latency more than most policies, even if the policies are large.
```

Author: Great, updated in the latest commit

> - The overhead of having these extremely large policies add is relatively similar to the increase of latency of adding the Envoy proxies compared to that of no Envoy proxies.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- The latency increase of extremely large policies is relatively similar to the latency increase of adding Envoy proxy sidecars compared to that of no sidecars.
```

- Two different tests determined that the `sourceIP` rule is marginally slower than a path rule.

> If you are interested in creating your own large scale Security policies and running performance tests with them, see the performance benchmarking tool [README](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark/security/generate_policies).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you are interested in creating your own large scale security policies and running performance tests with them, see the [performance benchmarking tool README](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark/security/generate_policies).
```

Author: Updated in latest commit

> - In a more particular note, with two different tests it was determined that the `sourceIP` rule is marginally slower than that of a path rule.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Two different tests determined that the `sourceIP` rule is marginally slower than a path rule.
```

> If you are interested in reading more about the Security policies tests, see this [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZP9eQ_2EJEG12xnfsoo7125FDN38r62iqY1PUn9Dz-0/edit?usp=sharing).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you are interested in reading more about the security policies tests, see [our design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZP9eQ_2EJEG12xnfsoo7125FDN38r62iqY1PUn9Dz-0/edit?usp=sharing). If you don't already have access, you can [join the Istio team drive](https://istio.io/latest/about/community/join/).
```

Author: Updated thanks!

> If you are interested in reading more about the security policies tests, see [our design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZP9eQ_2EJEG12xnfsoo7125FDN38r62iqY1PUn9Dz-0/edit?usp=sharing). If you don't already have access, you can [join the Istio team drive](https://istio.io/latest/about/community/join/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are interested in reading more about the security policies tests, see [our design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZP9eQ_2EJEG12xnfsoo7125FDN38r62iqY1PUn9Dz-0/edit?usp=sharing). If you don't already have access, you can [join the Istio team drive](/about/community/join/).
```

> If you are interested in creating your own large scale Security policies and running performance tests with them see [README](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark/security/generate_policies)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you are interested in creating your own large scale Security policies and running performance tests with them, see the performance benchmarking tool [README](https://github.com/istio/tools/tree/master/perf/benchmark/security/generate_policies).
```

> If you are interested in reading more about the Security policies tests see [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZP9eQ_2EJEG12xnfsoo7125FDN38r62iqY1PUn9Dz-0/edit?usp=sharing)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you are interested in reading more about the Security policies tests, see this [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZP9eQ_2EJEG12xnfsoo7125FDN38r62iqY1PUn9Dz-0/edit?usp=sharing).
```
